---
title: July 3rd, 2022
subtitle: Journal entry for 2022-07-03
date: 2022-07-03
lastupdated: 2022-07-16
group: '2022-07'
published: false
layout: post
topics: [journal]
category: journal
---

I am currently in the nascent stages of recovery from an emotionally turbulent weekend, the aftershocks of which are still splitting my head in the form of a fierce migraine and tender eyes.
A brief encounter that occurred yesterday afternoon convinced me that my blighted status is likely no secret to those who may have the misfortune to lay their eyes upon me now, for I am not any better off today than I was at the time of the following tale. 

Yesterday, a small miracle occurred: I somehow managed to peel my weary body and soul up from the cushion of my bed in order to wash my dirty clothes at the laundromat. 
This burst of concentrated (or, so it seemed to me at the time) effort was absolutely a consequence of necessity rather than any sense of responsibility or motivation on my behalf: I regret to admit that if I had not done so, my excursions out of my apartment today would have required a significant degree of improvisation.
I was hanging on to decency by a singular thread. 

The dragon guardian of the laundromat sized me up as I pushed my granny cart up to the machine, and I had barely put one sock in before she admonished my technique and swept in with bickering kindness to save me from myself.
*No, no, you're gonna use that one? That machine's too big! Use that one over there. Yeah, the junior.*
I gratefully accepted her wisdom and as I waited for the cycle to come to an end, I reckoned that since I was already estranged from the comforts of my room, I may as well scrounge for food at the grocery store to fill the empty shelves of my refrigerator. 

Embarking on this rodent quest, I trudged from the laundromat to the store with belabored steps as my body sighed and huffed at me, begging, pleading, imploring me to give up for the day.
The blinding white glare of the afternoon sun beat down on my face, seized my eyeballs, and squeezed them like how one might wring a lemon to within an inch of its life — my poor eyeballs! which were already swollen shut and bloodshot with puffiness.
This compounding pain caused me to grimace and squint in an effort to prevent my headache from increasing in severity.

Thus I hobbled. 
What a sight for sore eyes! 
The sight would no doubt make them sorer. 
On the (thankfully) short path that I was on, I noticed that a health food cafe had recently opened, advertising smoothies and various cleansing juices, and I took a sluggish glance over at their patio. 
There I squinted at a middle aged man sitting at a table, sipping on a green concoction. 
He must have felt my crusty gaze creep up on him, 
